# Cab-Sharing-and-Navigation-System:
Travelling has become a very important and necessary component in our daily life to accomplish our task. There are several ways to travel along but they got some draw backs such as time delay, costly fair, long travelling route. So, our team developed a CAB SHARING AND NAVIGATION SYSTEM program which overcomes the drawback in such a way that reduces travelling distance by analysing all available routes, and selecting a route which has minimum distance to reach that particular pickup or drop-off points This Cab Sharing Service will be available at an affordable fair price which will be delivering each passenger in minimum time and distance by sharing a single cab.
# Description: 
We are performing this project on Linux (Ubuntu) platform using Concurrent Client-Server Model. The data structure used here is graph where the vertices denote all the stops in the route of the cab and the edges denote the path between the stops. The concept of Dijkstra's Shortest Path Algorithm is used to find the shortest path and distance between the cab and corresponding stops. The pickup and drop-off points are fixed. However, the passenger must choose his pickup and drop-off point from the list of stops only. In this project the cab acts as a server and the passenger acts as a client. The maximum number of passengers allowed are three if it exceeds the fourth passenger will receive a message (No seats available).

If the cab receives three requests simultaneously then the cab will compare these passenger’s pickup point and will pick up them according to the nearest pickup point from the cab. Each time picking a passenger it will check either the previous passenger has its drop-off point on that pickup point or any stop before that pickup point, if yes then it will drop that particular passenger and will wait for a new passenger's request or else it will pickup the next passenger. After Picking all three Passengers it will then compare the drop-off points of all three passengers and will drop them according to the nearest drop-off point from the cab. While dropping each passenger it will not wait for new passenger’s request as it will consume time and will be not convenient. Now, after dropping all three passengers cab driver will choose either to wait for new passenger’s requests or exit the program.
